we start with some breaking news this
hour that Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has dissolved the six
member War cabinet it was a widely
expected move that comes after the
departure from government of the centus
former General Benny Gant Netanyahu had
faced demands from the Nationalist
religious Partners in his coalition to
be included in the war cabinet a move
which would have intensified strains
with International Partners including
the United States well IDF spokes person
Daniel hagari has been speaking about
the decision in the past few minutes if
cabinet members are being changed and
the the method is be shed we we have the
the ashlon and we know the chain of
command we're working according to the
chain of command this is a democracy we
will keep on doing so and if the members
of the cabinet are being changed this is
the decision of this democracy of this
cabinet of this prime minister and we
will keep acting according to the
cabinet according ing to the law
according to the international law this
is what the IDF does did and will do in
the future Daniel hagari there well
Israel's military is expected to repeat
an 11-hour daytime tactical pause today
extending along 12 kmers of Road into
Gaza from a key Southern border crossing
the announcement of the plan to allow in
humanitarian supplies was criticized on
Sunday by the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and several far-right
government minister isers operations are
being halted between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m. every day along the road that leads
from the Kem Shalom Crossing to the main
Salah Alin Highway which extends north
through the territory Aid agencies say
they still remain concerned about Safety
and Security our Middle East
correspondent yolan Nell has more from
Jerusalem although there's been a
political storm with the Israeli
military announcing this new Arrangement
um they're calling a tactical pause to
allow more Aid deliveries into Gaza um
that Arrangement is still in place we
believe it's in effect right now we've
had far-right Israeli ministers who have
descried this decision you've had the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu really criticizing the
military saying we have a country with
an army not an army with a country but
there are Israeli commentators at the
same time who are saying that this step
would have had political approval what
it's designed to do is to allow lorries
to reach the Kem Shalom Crossing from
the Gaza side pick up Aid and then take
it at least as far as a main north to
south road so it can be distributed uh
inside Gaza with more safety and really
that is is necessary since the uh
Israeli incursion of Rafa in the very
south of the Gaza Strip last month a lot
of Aid has got stuck at this main entry
point now with a full ceasefire in Gaza
still looking a long way off the Israeli
military is also now warning about a
wider War being possible with the
Lebanese armed group Hezbollah that
follows a recent intensification and
violence across the Israel Lebanon
border and we're expecting a key us
Diplomat Amos Hawkin to come here today
to try to reduce tensions along the
Israel libanon
border zoland now there uh let's just
take you briefly to osow where Philip
lazarini um from the United Nations
relief and works agency is addressing um
a press conference there um about Aid we
understand and that Aid getting through
uh in Gaza um we will bring you the uh
important lines from that um press
conference as we get it we have let's
just have a listen now of lawmaker
trying to label the organization as
being a terrorist or to try to get rid
of the organization from the occupied
Palestinian territories and we have also
regular L demonstration which turn
violent organized sometimes by elected
member of the municipality of
Jerusalem and will turn into Aron attack
in Jerusalem as you say espan these are
not just attack against un these are
attacks against the UN and this is a
reason why I have called member of the
security Council and the member state to
express outrage and to put in place the
necessary measure to prevent that this
become a new Norm because if we tolerate
this in the occupied Palestinian
territory this will be the new Norm
anywhere else in the world the last
point we were discussing is about the
day after or the day after the ceasefire
I prefer to say after the ceasefire once
there is a lower intensity of military
operation and we discuss indeed the top
priority of trying to bring back the
600,000 girls and boys on the age of
primary and second School living in the
rubel being deeply traumatized back into
a learning environment and the more we
will wait to do this Philip lazarini
there from unra um we are hearing him
speak in Oslo there at a press
conference um let's move on now to speak
to tal Schneider uh political and
diplomatic correspondent at the Times of
Israel uh thanks very much for your time
here on BBC News let's go back to that
story that we've had break
uh within the last half an hour that um
Benjamin Netanyahu has dissolved uh the
six member War cabinet uh is that a
surprise to you that that's happened no
it's actually a five members War cabinet
it was set up uh immediately after the
beginning of the war in order to
accommodate Benny guns the the the
partner that you know stepped in to help
during the War uh it was you know a
special arrangement for this what they
called emergency government uh it became
less effective with time and that was
one of the reason benig Gans stepped out
uh Benny Gans is not the opposition
leader but he's leading in all polls to
be prime minister if uh there will be
elections so once he was out he is a
former Chief IDF also once he was out um
one of netanyahu's Partners the ex very
extreme right-wing itamar bangir said I
want to be part of this war cabinet and
n doesn't want him in those you know
very close uh close meetings uh and for
that reason I think he he broke up the
war cabinet in order not to include
benir in there but we have to say Israel
has um you know a cabinet a security
cabinet so this was like an extra you
know very near a war cabinet and now
authorities or or decision making will
go back to the just regular uh security
cabinet okay so does that mean will have
implications for um strategy in the war
going
ahead it well with the stepping out of
Benny gun I think itar benir and another
extreme partner batala smri both of them
have more leverage on the Prime Minister
as it is in the government or in the
cabinet so they have they can use their
you know they can threaten to to
dissolve you know the government at any
any minute they could have done this
also before but they had less power they
were diluted with benig Gans inside now
they have more um power over the Prime
Minister and we we have learned through
those you know very difficult months
that those two uh are very uh
influential on Net's decision making so
this is you know the the bad you know
the disappointing side of this very
extreme
government what will this mean in terms
of diplomatic relations do you think
will particularly the US will will will
there be any implications um with
disbanding the the war cabinet um for
relations with Israel going forward so
for example those two extreme ministers
are you know they are four uh more uh
settlements there are for you know they
oppose any type of of agreement with the
terror organization the Hamas uh when
you have to approve uh an agreement with
a terror organization and release uh
convict murderers that are sitting in
Israeli jails when you have to do that
you need to have a vote in the
government those two are you know they
they say it out loud they just they will
not just vote against it they will also
dissolve the government uh having said
that I think n still have a majority in
his own government to move forward a
deal such as that you know the
expectation of the Israel public is for
a deal there is you know huge majority
in the polls for a hostages release deal
that will also include releasing uh
convicted murderers terrorists I mean um
so and maybe end of War so there is huge
majority in Israel public for that and I
think Netanyahu still have the majority
in his own government to do that he just
knows from those two extreme types that
his government this is the end the
political end of his extreme government
if if they will you know they will
participate in the vote of course T
Schneider in Tel Aviv we appreciate your
time here on BBC KNE